K-1
Part I
Item 1. Business Description
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged
in numerous diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary
basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution
businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates numerous other businesses engaged in a variety of manufacturing, services and
retailing activities. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is in Omaha, Nebraska.
Berkshire’s operating subsidiaries are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are few centralized or
integrated business functions. Berkshire’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Vice Chairman of Insurance Operations and
Vice Chairman of Non-Insurance Operations participate in and are ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation
decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses.
Berkshire’s senior corporate management is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire’s corporate
governance practices, including monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating
in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed. Berkshire’s Board of Directors is responsible for selecting an
appropriate successor to the Chief Executive Officer. The Berkshire Code of Business Conduct and Ethics emphasizes, among
other things, the commitment to ethics and compliance with government laws and regulations and provides basic standards for
ethical and legal behavior of its employees.
Human capital and resources are an integral and essential component of Berkshire’s businesses. Berkshire and its
operating subsidiaries employed approximately 392,400 people worldwide at the end of 2024, of which approximately 80%
were in the United States (“U.S.”) and 20% were represented by unions. Employees engage in a wide variety of occupations.
Consistent with Berkshire’s decentralized management philosophy, Berkshire’s operating subsidiaries each establish specific
policies and practices concerning the attraction and retention of personnel within their organizations. Given the wide variations
in the nature and size of business activities, specific policies and practices vary among Berkshire’s operating subsidiaries.
Policies and practices commonly address, among other things: maintaining a safe work environment and minimizing or
eliminating workplace injuries; offering competitive compensation, which includes various health insurance and retirement
benefits, as well as incentives to recognize and reward performance; wellness programs; training, learning and career
advancement opportunities; and hiring practices intended to identify qualified candidates. Berkshire’s combined U.S.
workforce data, based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines, is available on its website
(https://www.berkshirehathaway.com), under sustainability.
Insurance Businesses
Berkshire’s insurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance
subsidiaries. Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks as well as life
and health risks worldwide. Berkshire’s insurance businesses employed approximately 41,500 people at the end of 2024. For
purposes of this discussion, entities that provide insurance or reinsurance are referred to as insurers.
In direct or primary insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from people or organizations that are directly
subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that
arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the insurer assumes defined portions of risks that other direct insurers
or reinsurers assumed in their own insuring activities.
Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory
considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic
or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers compete on
the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics,
price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.
Insurers based in the U.S. are subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are
licensed to write policies on an admitted basis. The primary focus of state regulation is to monitor financial solvency of insurers
and otherwise protect policyholder interests. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish
guidelines for permissible business and investment activities and have the authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority
to do business. States regulate the payment of shareholder dividends by insurance companies and other transactions with
affiliates.
K-2
Insurers that market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed are referred to as admitted
insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and/or premium rates.
Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted insurers.
Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers
who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party’s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers.
Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are
normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates or reinsurance contracts.
The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”).
The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers in preparing and filing annual statutory
financial statements. In addition, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and
programs dealing with regulatory oversight of solvency, risk management, compliance with financial regulation standards and
risk-based capital reporting requirements. However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these solvency
and soundness related matters, and the laws and regulations implemented in individual states may differ from those adopted by
the NAIC.
International insurance regulators, through the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”), have been
developing advisory standards and best practices focused on establishing a common set of principles (“Insurance Core
Principles”) and framework (“ComFrame”) for the regulation of large multi-national insurance groups. The Insurance Core
Principles and ComFrame cover a wide range of topics, including group-wide supervision by regulators, corporate governance,
risk management, capital adequacy and other macroprudential issues. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS adopted an international
capital standard (“ICS”) for internationally active insurance groups in December 2024.
While the IAIS standards do not have legal effect, U.S. state insurance departments and the NAIC are implementing
various group supervision regulatory tools and mandates that are responsive to certain IAIS standards. U.S. state regulators
have formed supervisory colleges intended to promote communication and cooperation amongst the various domestic and
international insurance regulators. U.S. state regulators require insurance groups to file an annual report and an Own Risk
Solvency Assessment or ORSA, with the group’s lead supervisor. The NAIC also adopted a group capital calculation (“GCC”)
tool for large insurance groups. The NAIC’s GCC is a tool designed to help the lead supervisor understand the capital adequacy
across an insurance group. The NAIC is also developing further tools, including various liquidity assessments, that will likely
be imposed on insurance groups in the future. While the ICS is based on a consolidation approach, the GCC is based on an
aggregation approach called the Aggregation Method. In December 2024, the IAIS announced that the Aggregation Method
has been deemed to be comparable to the ICS.
The Nebraska Department of Insurance (“Nebraska DOI”) acts as the lead supervisor for Berkshire’s insurance group
and chairs the Berkshire supervisory college. The Nebraska DOI adopted the GCC tool, and Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries
are required to submit an annual GCC to it.
Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels, which differentiates them from
their competitors. The combined statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S.-based insurers was approximately $310 billion at
December 31, 2024. Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s and A++ (superior) by A.M.
Best with respect to their financial condition and claims paying ability.
The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) within the U.S.
Department of the Treasury to provide federal reinsurance of certified terrorism losses incurred by U.S. commercial property
and casualty insurers. The Program extends to December 31, 2027 through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act of 2019. Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. The Department of the Treasury is
responsible for certifying acts of terrorism under TRIA. Federal reinsurance under TRIA may apply if the industry insured loss
for certified events occurring during the calendar year exceeds $200 million.
To be eligible for reinsurance under TRIA, insurers must make insurance coverage available for acts of terrorism by
providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for the coverage and
the federal share of insured losses resulting from an act of terrorism. TRIA excludes certain forms of direct insurance, such as
personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines. Reinsurers are not required to offer
terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.
In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their
satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 80% of their insured losses in excess of the insurers group deductible.
Under TRIA, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business
in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible for Berkshire’s insurance group is expected to be
approximately $2.6 billion in 2025. There is also an aggregate program limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal
reinsurance coverage for each TRIA year.
K-3
The extent of insurance regulation varies widely among the countries where Berkshire’s non-U.S. operations conduct
business. Each country imposes licensing, solvency, risk management and financial reporting requirements, although the type
and extent of the requirements may differ substantially by jurisdiction.
Significant variations can also be found in the size, structure and resources of the local non-U.S. regulatory departments
that oversee insurance activities. Certain regulators maintain close relationships with subject insurers and others operate a risk-
based approach.
Berkshire’s non-U.S. insurance operations are conducted through subsidiaries and branches of subsidiaries. Non-U.S.
insurance subsidiaries are primarily located in Germany, Ireland, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Australia and South Africa,
and branches are also maintained in several other countries. Most of these foreign jurisdictions impose local capital
requirements. Other legal requirements involve discretionary licensing procedures, risk management and governance
requirements, local retention of funds and records, and data privacy and protection programs. Berkshire’s international
insurance companies are also subject to multinational application of certain U.S. laws. There are various regulatory bodies and
initiatives that impact Berkshire in multiple international jurisdictions, and the potential for significant effect on the Berkshire
insurance group could be heightened due to industry and economic developments.
Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations include the following groups: (1) GEICO, (2) Berkshire Hathaway
Primary Group and (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Alleghany Corporation (“Alleghany”), based in New York,
New York, was acquired by Berkshire on October 19, 2022. Alleghany’s operating subsidiaries include property and casualty
reinsurance and insurance businesses. Alleghany’s primary insurance businesses are included in the Berkshire Hathaway
Primary Group and its reinsurance businesses are included in the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group.
Except for retroactive reinsurance and periodic payment annuity products, which generate significant amounts of up-
front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over long time periods (creating “float,” see Investments
section), Berkshire expects to achieve an underwriting profit over time and that its managers will reject inadequately priced
risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less incurred insurance losses and benefits, loss adjustment expenses
and policy acquisition and other underwriting expenses. Underwriting profit does not include income earned from investments.
Additional information related to each of Berkshire’s underwriting groups follows.
GEICO—GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland. GEICO’s insurance subsidiaries include Government
Employees Insurance Company and several other insurance entities. The GEICO insurance subsidiaries’ principal business is
the sale of private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO
subsidiaries also sell insurance for motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats and small commercial
automobile fleets. Marketing is primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted
directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone, and to a lesser extent, through captive agents. GEICO also operates
an insurance agency that offers insurance written by third parties for individuals desiring insurance coverages that are not sold
by GEICO insurance subsidiaries, such as homeowners, renters, condominium, life and identity protection insurance.
GEICO competes for private passenger automobile insurance customers in the preferred, standard and non-standard risk
markets with other companies that sell directly to the customer and with companies that use agency sales forces, including
State Farm, Progressive, Allstate and USAA. According to the A.M. Best data for 2023 published in 2024, the five largest
automobile insurers had a combined market share of approximately 62.3% based on written premiums, with GEICO’s market
share being the third largest at approximately 12.3%.
Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or
other events and factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.
GEICO’s insurance policies are written on an admitted basis. State insurance departments stringently regulate private
passenger auto insurance policies and rates. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance tends to focus on price
and level of customer service provided. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer
satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage
and settle claims. GEICO’s name and other trademarks are considered material assets and are protected through appropriate
registrations.
Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group (“BH Primary”) is a collection of
independently managed insurers that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the
U.S. Nearly 90% of BH Primary premiums written in 2024 were in the U.S., of which approximately 60% was written on an
admitted basis, with the remainder written on a non-admitted basis. These various operations are discussed below.
K-4
National Indemnity Company (“NICO”), domiciled in Nebraska, and certain affiliates (“NICO Primary”) underwrite
commercial automobile and general liability insurance on an admitted basis and on an excess and surplus lines basis. Insurance
coverage is offered nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers.
Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies (“BHHC”) is a group of insurers offering workers’ compensation,
commercial automobile and commercial property coverages to a diverse client base. BHHC has a national reach, with the ability
to provide first-dollar and small-to-large deductible workers’ compensation coverage to employers nationwide. NICO Primary
and BHHC are each based in Omaha, Nebraska.
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BHSI”) offers commercial property and casualty, executive and professional,
and various other insurance coverages through Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company and several other Berkshire
subsidiaries. BHSI writes primary and excess policies on an admitted and non-admitted basis in the U.S., and on a local or
foreign non-admitted basis outside the U.S. BHSI is based in Boston, Massachusetts, and has regional offices in several other
cities within the U.S. BHSI also maintains international offices and branches in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and across
several countries in Asia and Europe. BHSI writes insurance policies through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well
as through managing general agents.
Alleghany’s property and casualty insurance business is conducted in the U.S. on both an admitted and non-admitted
basis through RSUI Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“RSUI”) and CapSpecialty, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“CapSpecialty”).
RSUI and CapSpecialty primarily write specialty insurance in the property, umbrella/excess liability, professional liability,
directors’ and officers’ liability and general liability lines of business. Insurance is written through independent wholesale
insurance brokers, retail agents and managing general agents.
MedPro Group (“MedPro”) is a leading provider of healthcare liability (“HCL”) insurance in the U.S. MedPro provides
customized HCL insurance, as well as claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists and other
healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and other healthcare facilities. Additionally, MedPro provides HCL
insurance solutions to international markets through other Berkshire insurance affiliates, offers professional liability insurance
to other non-healthcare professionals, and provides specialized accident and health insurance solutions to colleges and other
customers through its subsidiaries and other Berkshire subsidiaries. MedPro is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana. MLMIC
Insurance Company (“MLMIC”) writes medical professional liability insurance policies in New York State through brokers
and on a direct basis to medical and dental professionals, health care providers and hospitals. MLMIC is based in Albany, New
York.
U.S. Liability Insurance Company (“USLI”) includes a group of five specialty insurers that underwrite commercial,
professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted basis, as well as on an excess and surplus lines basis. USLI markets
policies in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Canada through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USLI also
underwrites and markets a wide variety of specialty insurance products. USLI is based in Wayne, Pennsylvania. The GUARD
Insurance Companies (“GUARD”) consist of five insurance companies that provide a comprehensive suite of commercial
insurance solutions to over 200,000 small-to-medium sized businesses. These insurance products are accessible through
independent agents and wholesale brokers. GUARD is based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
Berkshire Hathaway Direct Insurance Company and its affiliates (“BH Direct”) offer commercial insurance products
(including workers’ compensation, property, auto, general and professional liability) to small business customers. BH Direct’s
products are primarily sold through two internet-based distribution platforms, biBERK.com and Threeinsurance.com. BH
Direct writes policies on an admitted basis and is based in Stamford, Connecticut.
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group—Berkshire’s combined global reinsurance business, referred to as the
Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”), offers a wide range of coverages on property, casualty, life and health
risks to insurers and reinsurers worldwide. BHRG conducts business activities in 24 countries. Reinsurance business is written
through NICO and affiliates (“NICO Group”), General Re Corporation and its subsidiaries (“General Re Group”) and
Transatlantic Reinsurance Company and its affiliates (“TransRe Group”). U.S. underwriting operations of the NICO Group
and General Re Group are based in Stamford, Connecticut while the TransRe Group is based in New York, New York.
Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage
for all or a portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by a direct insurer or reinsurer, while facultative reinsurance
involves coverage of specific individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess-
of-loss. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums
and losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess-of-loss (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification
of the direct insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-
share and excess-of-loss reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.
K-5
The type and volume of business written is dependent on market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and
coverage terms. The level of underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived
level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets as well as from the timing of particularly large reinsurance
transactions.
Property/casualty
The NICO Group offers traditional property/casualty reinsurance on both an excess-of-loss and a quota-share basis,
catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty and facultative reinsurance, and primary insurance on an excess-of-loss basis for very large
or unusual risks. The type and volume of business written by the NICO Group may vary significantly from period to period
resulting from changes in perceived premium rate adequacy and from unique or large transactions. A significant portion of
NICO Group’s annual reinsurance premium derived from a 20% quota-share agreement with Insurance Australia Group
Limited (“IAG”). This quota-share agreement expires December 31, 2029. IAG is a multi-line insurer in Australia, New
Zealand and other Asia-Pacific countries.
The General Re Group is a global property and casualty reinsurance business. Reinsurance contracts are written on both
a quota-share and excess-of-loss basis for multiple lines of business. Contracts are primarily in the form of treaties, and to a
lesser degree, on a facultative basis. The General Re Group conducts business in North America, primarily marketed on a direct
basis through General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”), which is licensed in the District of Columbia and all states, except
Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer. GRC also conducts operations in North America through numerous branch offices
in the U.S. and Canada.
In North America, the General Re Group includes General Star National Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity
Company and Genesis Insurance Company, which offer a broad array of specialty and surplus lines and property, casualty and
professional liability coverages. These companies offer solutions for the unique needs of public entity, commercial and captive
customers and their business is marketed through a select group of wholesale brokers, managing general underwriters and
program administrators.
The General Re Group’s international reinsurance business is primarily written on a direct basis through General
Reinsurance AG, based in Cologne, Germany, and subsidiaries and branches in numerous other countries, as well as through
brokers by Faraday Corporate Capital Limited, which participates in the Lloyd’s of London market through Syndicate 435.
The TransRe Group provides quota-share and excess-of-loss reinsurance across various property and casualty lines of
business. Contracts are written on both a treaty and facultative basis to insurance companies in the U.S. and in foreign markets
through subsidiaries and branches in numerous countries. Business is written primarily through brokers, and to a lesser extent
on a direct basis.
Life/health
The General Re Group also conducts a global life and health reinsurance business. In 2024, net premiums written were
primarily in the Asia-Pacific, U.S. and Western Europe regions. The General Re Group underwrites life, disability,
supplemental health, critical illness and long-term care risks on a direct basis.
Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”) and its affiliates write reinsurance covering
various forms of traditional life insurance exposures and reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death, income and similar risks
on closed-blocks of variable annuity risks, which are in run-off.
Retroactive reinsurance
Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies for adverse development of claims arising from loss
events that have already occurred under property and casualty policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is
provided on an excess basis (above a stated retention) or for losses payable after the inception of the contract with no additional
ceding company retention. Contracts are normally subject to aggregate limits of indemnification, which can be exceptionally
large in amount. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under these contracts.
The concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing retroactive reinsurance contract prices and
terms since loss payments may occur over decades. Normally, expected ultimate losses payable under these policies are
expected to exceed premiums, thus producing underwriting losses. Nevertheless, this business is written, in part, because of
the large amounts of policyholder funds generated for investment, the economic benefit of which is reflected through
investment results in future periods.
K-6
Periodic payment annuity
BHLN writes periodic payment annuity insurance policies and reinsures annuity-like obligations. Under these policies,
BHLN receives upfront consideration and agrees in the future to make periodic payments that often extend for decades. These
policies generally relate to the settlement of underlying personal injury or workers’ compensation claims of other insurers,
known as structured settlements. Consistent with retroactive reinsurance contracts, time-value-of-money is an important factor
in establishing annuity premiums and ultimate payments are expected to exceed premiums received, producing underwriting
losses. BHLN wrote no new policies in 2023 and 2024 in response to changing economic and market conditions.