Here’s a breakdown of the 2023-24 earnings as we see them. All calculations are after
depreciation, amortization and income tax. EBITDA, a flawed favorite of Wall Street, is not for
us.
(in $ millions)
2024 2023
Insurance-underwriting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 9,020 $ 5,428
Insurance-investment income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,670 9,567
BNSF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,031 5,087
Berkshire Hathaway Energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,730 2,331
Other controlled businesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13,072 13,362
Non-controlled businesses* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,519 1,750
Other** . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,395 (175)
Operating earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $47,437 $37,350
* Includes certain businesses in which Berkshire had between a 20% and 50% ownership
such as Kraft Heinz, Occidental Petroleum and Berkadia.
** Includes foreign currency exchange gains of approximately $1.1 billion in 2024 and
approximately $211 million in 2023 produced by our usage of non-U.S. dollar-denominated
debt.
Surprise, Surprise! An Important American Record is Smashed
Sixty years ago, present management took control of Berkshire. That move was a
mistake – my mistake – and one that plagued us for two decades. Charlie, I should emphasize,
spotted my obvious error immediately: Though the price I paid for Berkshire looked cheap, its
business – a large northern textile operation – was headed for extinction.
The U.S. Treasury, of all places, had already received silent warnings of Berkshire’s
destiny. In 1965, the company did not pay a dime of income tax, an embarrassment that had
generally prevailed at the company for a decade. That sort of economic behavior may be
understandable for glamorous startups, but it’s a blinking yellow light when it happens at a
venerable pillar of American industry. Berkshire was headed for the ash can.
Fast forward 60 years and imagine the surprise at the Treasury when that same
company – still operating under the name of Berkshire Hathaway – paid far more in corporate
income tax than the U.S. government had ever received from any company – even the American
tech titans that commanded market values in the trillions.
To be precise, Berkshire last year made four payments to the IRS that totaled $26.8
billion. That’s about 5% of what all of corporate America paid. (In addition, we paid sizable
amounts for income taxes to foreign governments and to 44 states.)
5
Note one crucial factor allowing this record-shattering payment: Berkshire shareholders
during the same 1965-2024 period received only one cash dividend. On January 3, 1967, we
disbursed our sole payment – $101,755 or 10¢ per A share. (I can’t remember why I suggested
this action to Berkshire’s board of directors. Now it seems like a bad dream.)
For sixty years, Berkshire shareholders endorsed continuous reinvestment and that
enabled the company to build its taxable income. Cash income-tax payments to the U.S.
Treasury, miniscule in the first decade, now aggregate more than $101 billion . . . and counting.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Huge numbers can be hard to visualize. Let me recast the $26.8 billion that we paid last
year.
If Berkshire had sent the Treasury a $1 million check every 20 minutes throughout all of
2024 – visualize 366 days and nights because 2024 was a leap year – we still would have owed
the federal government a significant sum at yearend. Indeed, it would be well into January before
the Treasury would tell us that we could take a short breather, get some sleep, and prepare for our
2025 tax payments.
Where Your Money Is
Berkshire’s equity activity is ambidextrous. In one hand we own control of many
businesses, holding at least 80% of the investee’s shares. Generally, we own 100%.
These 189 subsidiaries have similarities to marketable common stocks but are far from
identical. The collection is worth many hundreds of billions and includes a few rare gems,
many good-but-far-from-fabulous businesses and some laggards that have been disappointments.
We own nothing that is a major drag, but we have a number that I should not have purchased.
In the other hand, we own a small percentage of a dozen or so very large and highly
profitable businesses with household names such as Apple, American Express, Coca-Cola and
Moody’s. Many of these companies earn very high returns on the net tangible equity required for
their operations. At yearend, our partial-ownership holdings were valued at $272 billion.
Understandably, really outstanding businesses are very seldom offered in their entirety, but small
fractions of these gems can be purchased Monday through Friday on Wall Street and, very
occasionally, they sell at bargain prices.
We are impartial in our choice of equity vehicles, investing in either variety based upon
where we can best deploy your (and my family’s) savings. Often, nothing looks compelling; very
infrequently we find ourselves knee-deep in opportunities. Greg has vividly shown his ability to
act at such times as did Charlie.
6
With marketable equities, it is easier to change course when I make a mistake.
Berkshire’s present size, it should be underscored, diminishes this valuable option. We can’t
come and go on a dime. Sometimes a year or more is required to establish or divest an
investment. Additionally, with ownership of minority positions we can’t change management if
that action is needed or control what is done with capital flows if we are unhappy with the
decisions being made.
With controlled companies, we can dictate these decisions, but we have far less flexibility
in the disposition of mistakes. In reality, Berkshire almost never sells controlled businesses
unless we face what we believe to be unending problems. An offset is that some business owners
seek out Berkshire because of our steadfast behavior. Occasionally, that can be a decided plus for
us.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Despite what some commentators currently view as an extraordinary cash position at
Berkshire, the great majority of your money remains in equities. That preference won’t change.
While our ownership in marketable equities moved downward last year from $354 billion to
$272 billion, the value of our non-quoted controlled equities increased somewhat and remains far
greater than the value of the marketable portfolio.
Berkshire shareholders can rest assured that we will forever deploy a substantial majority
of their money in equities – mostly American equities although many of these will have
international operations of significance. Berkshire will never prefer ownership of cash-equivalent
assets over the ownership of good businesses, whether controlled or only partially owned.
Paper money can see its value evaporate if fiscal folly prevails. In some countries, this
reckless practice has become habitual, and, in our country’s short history, the U.S. has come
close to the edge. Fixed-coupon bonds provide no protection against runaway currency.
Businesses, as well as individuals with desired talents, however, will usually find a way
to cope with monetary instability as long as their goods or services are desired by the country’s
citizenry. So, too, with personal skills. Lacking such assets as athletic excellence, a wonderful
voice, medical or legal skills or, for that matter, any special talents, I have had to rely on equities
throughout my life. In effect, I have depended on the success of American businesses and I will
continue to do so.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
One way or another, the sensible – better yet imaginative – deployment of savings by
citizens is required to propel an ever-growing societal output of desired goods and services. This
system is called capitalism. It has its faults and abuses – in certain respects more egregious now
than ever – but it also can work wonders unmatched by other economic systems.
America is Exhibit A. Our country’s progress over its mere 235 years of existence could
not have been imagined by even the most optimistic colonists in 1789, when the Constitution
was adopted and the country’s energies were unleashed.
7
True, our country in its infancy sometimes borrowed abroad to supplement our own
savings. But, concurrently, we needed many Americans to consistently save and then needed
those savers or other Americans to wisely deploy the capital thus made available. If America had
consumed all that it produced, the country would have been spinning its wheels.
The American process has not always been pretty – our country has forever had many
scoundrels and promoters who seek to take advantage of those who mistakenly trust them with
their savings. But even with such malfeasance – which remains in full force today – and also
much deployment of capital that eventually floundered because of brutal competition or
disruptive innovation, the savings of Americans has delivered a quantity and quality of output
beyond the dreams of any colonist.
From a base of only four million people – and despite a brutal internal war early on,
pitting one American against another – America changed the world in the blink of a celestial eye.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
In a very minor way, Berkshire shareholders have participated in the American miracle by
foregoing dividends, thereby electing to reinvest rather than consume. Originally, this
reinvestment was tiny, almost meaningless, but over time, it mushroomed, reflecting the mixture
of a sustained culture of savings, combined with the magic of long-term compounding.
Berkshire’s activities now impact all corners of our country. And we are not finished.
Companies die for many reasons but, unlike the fate of humans, old age itself is not lethal.
Berkshire today is far more youthful than it was in 1965.
However, as Charlie and I have always acknowledged, Berkshire would not have
achieved its results in any locale except America whereas America would have been every bit the
success it has been if Berkshire had never existed.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
So thank you, Uncle Sam. Someday your nieces and nephews at Berkshire hope to send
you even larger payments than we did in 2024. Spend it wisely. Take care of the many who, for
no fault of their own, get the short straws in life. They deserve better. And never forget that we
need you to maintain a stable currency and that result requires both wisdom and vigilance on
your part.
Property-Casualty Insurance
P/C insurance continues to be Berkshire’s core business. The industry follows a financial
model that is rare – very rare – among giant businesses.
Customarily, companies incur costs for labor, materials, inventories, plant and equipment,
etc. before – or concurrently with – the sale of their products or services. Consequently, their
CEOs have a good fix on knowing the cost of their product before they sell it. If the selling price
is less than its cost, managers soon learn they have a problem. Hemorrhaging cash is hard to
ignore.
8
When writing P/C insurance, we receive payment upfront and much later learn what our
product has cost us – sometimes a moment of truth that is delayed as much as 30 or more years.
(We are still making substantial payments on asbestos exposures that occurred 50 or more years
ago.)
This mode of operations has the desirable effect of giving P/C insurers cash before
they incur most expenses but carries with it the risk that the company can be losing
money – sometimes mountains of money – before the CEO and directors realize what is
happening.
Certain lines of insurance minimize this mismatch, such as crop insurance or hail damage
in which losses are quickly reported, evaluated and paid. Other lines, however, can lead to
executive and shareholder bliss as the company is going broke. Think coverages such as medical
malpractice or product liability. In “long-tail” lines, a P/C insurer may report large but fictitious
profits to its owners and regulators for many years – even decades. The accounting can be
particularly dangerous if the CEO is an optimist or a crook. These possibilities are not fanciful:
History reveals a large number of each species.
In recent decades, this “money-up-front, loss-payments-later” model has allowed
Berkshire to invest large sums (“float”) while generally delivering what we believe to be a small
underwriting profit. We make estimates for “surprises” and, so far, these estimates have been
sufficient.
We are not deterred by the dramatic and growing loss payments sustained by our
activities. (As I write this, think wildfires.) It’s our job to price to absorb these and unemotionally
take our lumps when surprises develop. It’s also our job to contest “runaway” verdicts, spurious
litigation and outright fraudulent behavior.
Under Ajit, our insurance operation has blossomed from an obscure Omaha-based
company into a world leader, renowned for both its taste for risk and its Gibraltar-like financial
strength. Moreover, Greg, our directors and I all have a very large investment in Berkshire in
relation to any compensation we receive. We do not use options or other one-sided forms of
compensation; if you lose money, so do we. This approach encourages caution but does not
ensure foresight.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
P/C insurance growth is dependent on increased economic risk. No risk – no need for
insurance.
Think back only 135 years when the world had no autos, trucks or airplanes. Now there
are 300 million vehicles in the U.S. alone, a massive fleet causing huge damage daily. Property
damage arising from hurricanes, tornadoes and wildfires is massive, growing and increasingly
unpredictable in their patterns and eventual costs.
9
It would be foolish – make that madness – to write ten-year policies for these coverages,
but we believe one-year assumption of such risks is generally manageable. If we change our
minds, we will change the contracts we offer. During my lifetime, auto insurers have generally
abandoned one-year policies and switched to the six-month variety. This change reduced float
but allowed more intelligent underwriting.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
No private insurer has the willingness to take on the amount of risk that Berkshire can
provide. At times, this advantage can be important. But we also need to shrink when prices are
inadequate. We must never write inadequately-priced policies in order to stay in the game. That
policy is corporate suicide.
Properly pricing P/C insurance is part art, part science and is definitely not a business for
optimists. Mike Goldberg, the Berkshire executive who recruited Ajit, said it best: “We want our
underwriters to daily come to work nervous, but not paralyzed.”
* * * * * * * * * * * *
All things considered, we like the P/C insurance business. Berkshire can financially and
psychologically handle extreme losses without blinking. We are also not dependent on reinsurers
and that gives us a material and enduring cost advantage. Finally, we have outstanding managers
(no optimists) and are particularly well-situated to utilize the substantial sums P/C insurance
delivers for investment.
Over the past two decades, our insurance business has generated $32 billion of after-tax
profits from underwriting, about 3.3 cents per dollar of sales after income tax. Meanwhile, our
float has grown from $46 billion to $171 billion. The float is likely to grow a bit over time and,
with intelligent underwriting (and some luck), has a reasonable prospect of being costless.
Berkshire Increases its Japanese Investments
A small but important exception to our U.S.-based focus is our growing investment in
Japan.
It’s been almost six years since Berkshire began purchasing shares in five Japanese
companies that very successfully operate in a manner somewhat similar to Berkshire itself. The
five are (alphabetically) ITOCHU, Marubeni, Mitsubishi, Mitsui and Sumitomo. Each of these
large enterprises, in turn, owns interests in a vast array of businesses, many based in Japan but
others that operate throughout the world.
10
Berkshire made its first purchases involving the five in July 2019. We simply looked at
their financial records and were amazed at the low prices of their stocks. As the years have
passed, our admiration for these companies has consistently grown. Greg has met many times
with them, and I regularly follow their progress. Both of us like their capital deployment, their
managements and their attitude in respect to their investors.
Each of the five companies increase dividends when appropriate, they repurchase their
shares when it is sensible to do so, and their top managers are far less aggressive in their
compensation programs than their U.S. counterparts.
Our holdings of the five are for the very long term, and we are committed to supporting
their boards of directors. From the start, we also agreed to keep Berkshire’s holdings below 10%
of each company’s shares. But, as we approached this limit, the five companies agreed to
moderately relax the ceiling. Over time, you will likely see Berkshire’s ownership of all five
increase somewhat.
At yearend, Berkshire’s aggregate cost (in dollars) was $13.8 billion and the market value
of our holdings totaled $23.5 billion.
Meanwhile, Berkshire has consistently – but not pursuant to any formula – increased its
yen-denominated borrowings. All are at fixed rates, no “floaters.” Greg and I have no view on
future foreign exchange rates and therefore seek a position approximating currency-neutrality.
We are required, however, under GAAP rules to regularly recognize in our earnings a calculation
of any gains or losses in the yen we have borrowed and, at yearend, had included $2.3 billion of
after-tax gains due to dollar strength of which $850 million occurred in 2024.
I expect that Greg and his eventual successors will be holding this Japanese position for
many decades and that Berkshire will find other ways to work productively with the five
companies in the future.
We like the current math of our yen-balanced strategy as well. As I write this, the annual
dividend income expected from the Japanese investments in 2025 will total about $812 million
and the interest cost of our yen-denominated debt will be about $135 million.
The Annual Gathering in Omaha
I hope you will join us in Omaha on May 3rd. We are following a somewhat changed
schedule this year, but the basics remain the same. Our goal is that you get many of your
questions answered, that you connect with friends, and that you leave with a good impression of
Omaha. The city looks forward to your visits.
11
We will have much the same group of volunteers to offer you a wide variety of Berkshire
products that will lighten your wallet and brighten your day. As usual, we will be open on Friday
from noon until 5 p.m. with lovable Squishmallows, underwear from Fruit of the Loom, Brooks
running shoes and a host of other items to tempt you.
Again, we will have only one book for sale. Last year we featured Poor Charlie’s
Almanack and sold out – 5,000 copies disappeared before the close of business on Saturday.
This year we will offer 60 Years of Berkshire Hathaway. In 2015, I asked Carrie Sova,
who among her many duties managed much of the activity at the annual meeting, to try her hand
at putting together a light-hearted history of Berkshire. I gave her full reign to use her
imagination, and she quickly produced a book that blew me away with its ingenuity, contents and
design.
Subsequently, Carrie left Berkshire to raise a family and now has three children. But each
summer, the Berkshire office force gets together to watch the Omaha Storm Chasers play
baseball against a Triple A opponent. I ask a few alums to join us, and Carrie usually comes with
her family. At this year’s event, I brazenly asked her if she would do a 60th Anniversary issue,
featuring Charlie’s photos, quotes and stories that have seldom been made public.
Even with three young children to manage, Carrie immediately said “yes.” Consequently,
we will have 5,000 copies of the new book available for sale on Friday afternoon and from
7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday.
Carrie refused any payment for her extensive work on the new “Charlie” edition. I
suggested she and I co-sign 20 copies to be given to any shareholder contributing $5,000 to the
Stephen Center that serves homeless adults and children in South Omaha. The Kizer family,
beginning with Bill Kizer, Sr., my long-time friend and Carrie’s grandfather, have for decades
been assisting this worthy institution. Whatever is raised through the sale of the 20 autographed
books, I will match.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Becky Quick will cover our somewhat re-engineered gathering on Saturday. Becky
knows Berkshire like a book and always arranges interesting interviews with managers,
investors, shareholders and an occasional celebrity. She and her CNBC crew do a great job of
both transmitting our meetings worldwide and archiving much Berkshire-related material. Give
our director, Steve Burke, credit for the archive idea.
We will not have a movie this year but rather will convene a bit earlier at 8 a.m. I will
make a few introductory remarks, and we will promptly get to the Q&A, alternating questions
between Becky and the audience.
12
Greg and Ajit will join me in answering questions and we will take a half-hour break at
10:30 a.m. When we reconvene at 11:00 a.m., only Greg will join me on stage. This year we will
disband at 1:00 p.m. but stay open for shopping in the exhibit area until 4:00 p.m.
You can find the full details regarding weekend activities on page 16. Note particularly
the always-popular Brooks run on Sunday morning. (I will be sleeping.)
* * * * * * * * * * * *
My wise and good-looking sister, Bertie, of whom I wrote last year, will be attending the
meeting along with two of her daughters, both good-looking as well. Observers all agree that the
genes producing this dazzling result flow down only the female side of the family. (Sob.)
Bertie is now 91 and we talk regularly on Sundays using old-fashion telephones for
communications. We cover the joys of old age and discuss such exciting topics as the relative
merits of our canes. In my case, the utility is limited to the avoidance of falling flat on my face.
But Bertie regularly one-ups me by asserting that she enjoys an additional benefit: When
a woman uses a cane, she tells me, men quit “hitting” on her. Bertie’s explanation is that the male
ego is such that little old ladies with canes simply aren’t an appropriate target. Presently, I have
no data to counter her assertion.
But I have suspicions. At the meeting I can’t see much from the stage, and I would
appreciate it if attendees would keep an eye on Bertie. Let me know if the cane is really doing its
job. My bet is that she will be surrounded by males. For those of a certain age, the scene will
bring back memories of Scarlett O’Hara and her horde of male admirers in Gone with the Wind.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
The Berkshire directors and I immensely enjoy having you come to Omaha, and I predict
that you will have a good time and likely make some new friends.
February 22, 2025 Warren E. Buffett
Chairman of the Board