K-24
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Berkshire and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as “we,” “us,” “our” or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks
and uncertainties in its business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the
only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are presently unknown or are currently deemed immaterial may also
impair our business operations.
General Business Risks
Terrorist acts could hurt our operating businesses.
A nuclear, biological or chemical terrorist attack or armed terrorist incursions could produce significant losses to our
worldwide operations. Our business operations could be adversely affected from such acts through the loss of human life,
destruction of production facilities and information systems or other property damage. We share these risks with all businesses.
Cybersecurity risks could result in economic losses to our businesses and reputational damage.
We rely on technology in virtually all aspects of our business. Like those of many large businesses, certain of our
information systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access, phishing efforts, denial-of-
service attacks and other cyber-attacks. We expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future as such attacks become more
sophisticated and frequent. A significant disruption or failure of our technology systems could result in service interruptions,
safety failures, security events, regulatory compliance failures, an inability to protect information and assets against
unauthorized users and other operational difficulties. Attacks perpetrated against our systems could result in loss of assets and
critical information and expose us to remediation costs and reputational damage.
Although we have taken steps intended to mitigate these risks, including business continuity planning, disaster recovery
planning and business impact analysis, a significant disruption or cyber intrusion at one or more of our significant operations
could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. Additionally, if we are unable to acquire,
develop, implement, adopt or protect rights around new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could
also have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.
Cyber-attacks could further adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities, information technology and business
systems or compromise confidential customer and employee information. Political, economic, social or financial market
instability or damage to or interference with our operating assets, customers or suppliers from cyber-attacks may result in
business interruptions, lost revenues, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption, unstable
markets, increased security, repair or other costs, or may materially adversely affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this
time. Any of these risks could materially affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial
markets resulting from terrorism, sustained or significant cyber-attacks or war could also have a material adverse effect on our
ability to raise capital. We share these risks with all businesses.
Geopolitical events could cause losses to our business and losses in the values of securities we own.
We believe risks of adverse effects from geopolitical events are rising, through armed and diplomatic conflicts involving
governments in various parts of the world. Government policies and actions taken in the U.S. and elsewhere, including
responses of other governments to such actions may adversely affect our operating businesses through reduced sales, increased
costs, restricted supply chains, physical damage to our properties and loss of life of our employees and losses in the values of
the securities we own. In addition, international trade policies in the U.S. and elsewhere, including tariffs and other barriers,
could negatively impact our operating results. We share these risks with all businesses.
We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital allocation decisions.
Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, age 94. Mr. Gregory Abel is Vice Chairman of Berkshire’s non-insurance
operations and Mr. Ajit Jain is Vice Chairman of Berkshire’s insurance operations. Mr. Abel and Mr. Jain each report directly
to Mr. Buffett.
If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable, there could be
a material adverse effect on our operations. Should a replacement for Mr. Buffett be needed currently, Berkshire’s Board of
Directors has agreed that Mr. Abel should replace Mr. Buffett. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its
current view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that the Board’s succession plan, together with
the outstanding managers running our numerous and highly diversified operating units, helps to mitigate this risk.
K-25
We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our various businesses.
In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent management to direct day-to-day business
activities of our operating subsidiaries and to manage changes in future business operations due to changing business or
regulatory environments. Our operating subsidiaries also need qualified and competent personnel to execute business plans and
serve their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Our inability to recruit, train and retain qualified and competent
managers and personnel could negatively affect the operating results, financial condition and liquidity of our subsidiaries and
Berkshire as a whole. Further, labor disruptions or strikes at our subsidiaries, our customers or within our supply chains could
reduce our sales, increase our costs and negatively impact our periodic operating results.
Investments are unusually concentrated in equity securities and fair values are subject to loss in value.
We concentrate a high percentage of the equity security investments of our insurance subsidiaries in a relatively small
number of issuers. A significant decline in the fair values of our larger investments in equity securities may produce a material
decline in our consolidated shareholders’ equity and our consolidated earnings.
Since a large percentage of our equity securities are held by our insurance subsidiaries, significant decreases in the fair
values of these investments will produce significant declines in the statutory surplus of our insurance subsidiaries. Our large
statutory surplus is a competitive advantage, and a long-term material decline could have an adverse effect on our claims-
paying ability ratings and our ability to write new insurance business, thus potentially reducing our future underwriting profits.
Competition and technology may erode our business franchises and result in lower earnings.
Each of our operating businesses face intense competition within markets in which they operate. While we manage our
businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive
advantages, many factors, including technological changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages.
Accordingly, our future operating results will depend to some degree on our operating units successfully protecting and
enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating
results in the future may decline.
Unfavorable general economic conditions may significantly reduce our operating earnings and impair our ability to
access capital markets at a reasonable cost.
Our operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the general economy or the specific industries
in which they operate. Significant deteriorations of economic conditions, including significant inflation over a prolonged period
could produce a material adverse effect on one or more of our significant operations. In addition, our utilities and energy
businesses and our railroad business regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures and depend on having
access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the capital markets is
restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be adversely affected.
Epidemics, pandemics or other similar outbreaks could hurt our operating businesses.
The outbreak of epidemics, pandemics or other similar outbreaks in the future may adversely affect our operations,
including the value of our equity securities portfolio. This may be due to closures or restrictions requested or mandated by
governmental authorities, disruption to supply chains and workforce, reduction of demand for our products and services, credit
losses when customers and other counterparties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, and volatility in global equity securities
markets, among other factors. We share most of these risks with all businesses.
Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.
Over time, regulatory initiatives have been adopted in the United States and elsewhere for a variety of reasons, including
as responses to financial markets crises, global economic recessions, and social and environmental issues. Such initiatives
address, for example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, the regulation of products and services and
environmental and climate change matters and income tax policy. These initiatives impact all of our businesses, albeit in
varying ways. Increased regulatory compliance costs could have a significant negative impact on our operating businesses, as
well as on the businesses in which we have significant, but not controlling, economic interests. We cannot predict whether such
initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.
Data privacy regulations have recently been enacted in various jurisdictions in the U.S. and throughout the world. These
regulations address numerous aspects related to the security of personal information that is stored in our information systems,
networks and facilities. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in reputational damage and significant economic
penalties.
K-26
Climate change and the regulation of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions may impact our businesses.
Climate and weather-related events and the regulation of GHG emissions could impact our businesses to varying degrees.
Climate-related events, including hurricanes, floods, wildfires, and other extreme weather events may increase the physical
risks and impacts to our operations. An increase in the frequency or intensity of extreme weather events and storms could
negatively impact the physical assets of our non-insurance operations and could produce losses affecting our businesses.
Similarly, extreme weather events may produce losses affecting our insurance operations as their primary business is to monitor,
assess and price risk, including climate-related risk, at an expected economic profit to address the risk-transfer needs of their
insurance customers.
Additional GHG and climate-related policies, including legislation, may emerge that influence the transition to a lower
GHG-emitting economy and could, in turn, influence costs for our businesses to comply with those policies, including BNSF
and BHE, which combined represent more than 90% of Berkshire’s direct emissions. The failure to comply with new or existing
regulations or reinterpretation of existing regulations relating to climate change could have a significant adverse effect on our
financial results.
Risks unique to our regulated businesses
Our tolerance for underwriting risk assumed in our various insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting
losses.
When properly paid for the risk assumed, we have been and will continue to be willing to assume more risk from a single
event than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. Accordingly, we could incur a significant loss from a single catastrophe
event resulting from a natural disaster or man-made catastrophes such as terrorism or cyber-attacks. We employ various
disciplined underwriting practices intended to mitigate potential losses, attempt to take into account all possible correlations
and avoid writing groups of policies from which pre-tax losses from a single catastrophe event might aggregate in excess of
$15 billion. However, despite our efforts, it is possible that losses could manifest in ways that we do not anticipate and that our
risk mitigation strategies are not designed to address. Various provisions of our policies, negotiated to limit our risk, such as
limitations or exclusions from coverage, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend, as it is possible that a court or
regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or limitation, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the
use of these exclusions and limitations. Our tolerance for significant insurance losses may result in lower reported earnings in
a future period.
The principal cost associated with the property and casualty insurance business is claims. In writing property and casualty
insurance policies, we receive premiums today and promise to pay covered losses in the future. However, it will take decades
before all claims that have occurred as of any given balance sheet date will be settled. Although we believe that recorded
liabilities for unpaid losses are adequate, we will not know whether these liabilities or the premiums charged for the coverages
provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. It is
possible that significant claims may emerge or develop in the future from the policies we have written in the past.
As industry practices and legal, social and environmental conditions evolve, unexpected and unintended issues related
to claims and coverage may emerge, including new or expanded theories of liability and increased frequency of litigation.
These or other changes could impose new financial obligations on us by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent
and result in increased litigation costs and adverse judicial awards. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent
until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full
extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our
estimated unpaid losses arising under contracts covering property and casualty insurance risks are large ($147.6 billion at
December 31, 2024), and a small percentage increase to those liabilities can result in a material reduction in reported earnings.
Changes in regulations and regulatory actions can adversely affect our operating results and our ability to allocate
capital.
Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulations may relate
to, among other things, the types of business that can be written, the rates that can be charged for coverage, the level of capital
that must be maintained and restrictions on the types and size of investments that can be made. Regulations may also restrict
the timing and amount of dividend payments to Berkshire by these businesses. U.S. state insurance regulators and international
insurance regulators are also actively developing various regulatory mechanisms to address the regulation of large
internationally active insurance groups, including regulations concerning group capital, liquidity, governance and risk
management. Accordingly, changes in regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory actions imposing restrictions
on our insurance businesses may adversely impact our results of operations and restrict our ability to allocate capital.
K-27
Our railroad business conducted through BNSF is also subject to a significant number of laws and regulations with
respect to rates and practices, taxes, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters.
Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on BNSF’s business. Governments
may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates, without providing any recourse for any
adverse effects that the change may have on the business. Complying with legislative and regulatory changes may pose
significant operating and implementation risks and require significant capital expenditures. BNSF can be exposed to significant
litigation costs and losses arising from these matters and from ongoing business operations.
BNSF derives significant amounts of revenue from the transportation of energy-related commodities, particularly coal.
To the extent that changes in government policies limit or restrict the usage of coal as a fuel source in generating electricity or
alternate fuels, such as natural gas, or otherwise displace coal as an energy source, revenues and earnings could be adversely
affected. As a common carrier, BNSF is also required to transport toxic inhalation hazard chemicals and other hazardous
materials. A release of hazardous materials could expose BNSF to significant claims, losses, penalties and environmental
remediation obligations. Changes in the regulation of the rail industry could negatively impact BNSF’s ability to determine
prices for rail services and to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.
Our utilities and energy businesses operated under BHE are highly regulated by numerous federal, state, local and foreign
governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. These laws and regulations are complex, dynamic and
subject to new interpretations or change. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses.
Regulations broadly apply and may limit management’s ability to independently make and implement decisions regarding
numerous matters including: acquiring businesses; constructing, acquiring, disposing or retiring of operating assets; operating
and maintaining generating facilities and transmission and distribution system assets; complying with pipeline safety and
integrity and environmental requirements; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt;
managing and reporting transactions between our domestic utilities and our other subsidiaries and affiliates; and paying
dividends or similar distributions. Failure to comply with or reinterpretations of existing regulations and new legislation or
regulations, such as those relating to air quality, climate change, emissions performance standards, water quality, coal ash
disposal and other environmental matters, or changes in the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant adverse
impact on our financial results. Furthermore, our regulated energy subsidiaries are exposed to losses arising from wildfires and
related litigation and judicial outcomes. The energy rates charged by our regulated energy subsidiaries to customers are based
on the costs of the business and require regulatory approval. To the extent costs are not recoverable through approved rates,
the operating results and financial condition of these businesses can be negatively impacted, perhaps materially.
Our railroad business requires significant ongoing capital investment to improve and maintain its railroad network so
that transportation services can be safely and reliably provided to customers on a timely basis. Our utilities and energy
businesses also require significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain generation, transmission and
distribution systems to meet their customers’ needs and reliability criteria. System assets may need to be operational for long
periods of time to justify the financial investment. The operational or financial failure of capital projects may not be recoverable
through rates that are charged to customers. Further, a significant portion of costs of capital improvements may be funded
through debt issued by BNSF and BHE and their subsidiaries. Disruptions in debt capital markets that restrict access to funding
when needed could adversely affect the results of operations, liquidity and/or capital resources of these businesses.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
Berkshire recognizes that maintaining processes for identifying, assessing, and managing cybersecurity threats is
important in dealing with its significant business risks. As such, Berkshire has implemented a framework for cybersecurity and
cyber-related information management across Berkshire’s diverse groups of businesses. The framework permits each Berkshire
Business Group (“Business Group”) to tailor solutions to identify, manage, and mitigate risks based on their own assessment
of their unique cybersecurity risks in conjunction with each Business Group’s overall risk management processes. At the same
time, the framework helps enable consistent and appropriate compliance in reporting material cyber events and risks across
Berkshire.
Each Business Group’s Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) on at least an annual basis is to provide a report to
the Business Group’s senior management, regarding the state of their cybersecurity program and its material cyber risks. These
reports are also shared with Berkshire’s internal audit group to inform and enhance the overall company’s risk management
processes. In addition, each Business Group is required to maintain an incident reporting process to report significant
cybersecurity events to Berkshire. Berkshire and its Business Groups engage and partner with a wide range of third parties to
assess, audit, educate, implement, operate, protect, and remediate various cybersecurity related elements.
K-28
Berkshire and its Business Groups rely on third-party service providers for a variety of products and services to run their
information systems. This dependence exposes Berkshire and the Business Groups, along with others who use these service
providers, to the impact of a cyber-attack on their service providers. On occasion, a cyber-attack at a third party service provider
could have a significant financial, operational or reputational impact to Berkshire. Berkshire and its Business Groups
continuously monitor the risks associated with its service providers.
The Audit Committee of Berkshire’s Board of Directors has responsibility for oversight of Berkshire’s cybersecurity risk
management program. The Audit Committee receives periodic reports regarding the number of and impact from cybersecurity
incidents reported through Berkshire’s cybersecurity incident reporting process. Additionally, the Audit Committee is updated
on cybersecurity trends and related issues. Furthermore, the Audit Committee approves and receives updates on the workplan
performed by Berkshire’s internal audit group that focuses on information technology and cybersecurity risks. This includes
audit procedures related to internal and external penetration testing, attack simulations, vulnerability assessments, cybersecurity
program reviews and other audits designed to investigate specific risks. The frequency of these updates is determined by the
Audit Committee in conjunction with Berkshire’s senior management.
In addition to the Audit Committee’s oversight, the senior management of Berkshire’s Businesses Groups are responsible
for the day-to-day operations of protecting their businesses’ information systems. Each Business Group is required to report
significant cybersecurity events to Berkshire. Berkshire’s senior management reviews incident reports to determine whether a
cyber incident report should be filed with the SEC.
Item 2. Description of Properties
The properties used by Berkshire’s business segments are summarized in this section. Berkshire’s railroad and utilities
and energy businesses, in particular, utilize considerable physical assets in their businesses.
Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Through BNSF Railway, BNSF operates over 32,500 route miles of track (excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks
and sidings) in 28 states, and also operates in three Canadian provinces. BNSF owns over 23,000 route miles, including
easements, and operates over 9,000 route miles of trackage rights that permit BNSF to operate its trains with its crews over
other railroads’ tracks. As of December 31, 2024, the total BNSF Railway system, including single and multiple main tracks,
yard tracks and sidings, consisted of over 50,000 operated miles of track.
BNSF operates various facilities and equipment to support its transportation system, including its infrastructure,
locomotives and freight cars. It also owns or leases other equipment to support rail operations, such as vehicles. Support
facilities for rail operations include yards and terminals throughout its rail network, system locomotive shops to perform
locomotive servicing and maintenance, a centralized network operations center for train dispatching and network operations
monitoring and management, computers, telecommunications equipment, signal systems and other support systems. Transfer
facilities are maintained for rail-to-rail as well as intermodal transfer of containers, trailers and other freight traffic and include
approximately 25 intermodal hubs located across the system. BNSF owns or holds under non-cancelable leases exceeding one
year approximately 6,800 locomotives and 71,400 freight cars, in addition to maintenance of way and other equipment.
In the ordinary course of business, BNSF incurs significant costs in repairing and maintaining its properties. In 2024,
BNSF recorded approximately $2.4 billion in repairs and maintenance expense.